If the RNA visualization is not correctly implementing the feature to avoid displaying individual nucleotides for sequences longer than 500 nucleotides, you can consider the following suggestions to help diagnose and fix the problem:

Conditional Rendering Logic: Ensure that the logic you're using to control whether nucleotides are displayed is correctly implemented. The check should be made before rendering the RNA structure. Here is how you might implement such a check:

def plot_rna_structure(bg, sequence):
    if len(sequence) <= 500:
        # Logic for rendering with nucleotide labels
        fvm.plot_rna(bg, text_kwargs={"fontweight":"bold"})
    else:
        # Logic for rendering without nucleotide labels
        fvm.plot_rna(bg)
    plt.axis('off')
Invocation Point: Confirm that you are invoking this function with the correct parameters and the point where the RNA structure is visualized checks the sequence length.

Correct Attribute Passing: When setting rendering attributes (e.g., fontweight or showing nucleotides), ensure they're conditionally applied based on the sequence length determined:

If nucleotides should not be shown for longer sequences, ensure nothing in the graphical setup explicitly attempts to force nodes (nucleotides) to be shown.
Debugging: Add debug statements to check where the logic flow might be failing. Print the sequence length and check which branch of your conditional logic is being executed:

print(f"Sequence length is {len(sequence)}. Showing nucleotides: {len(sequence) <= 500}")
Alternative Rendering: If using forgi's plot_rna doesn't straightforwardly support the feature:

Consider modifying plot_rna options to control visibility, such as using attributes or custom styles for drawing nodes.
You could possibly update or preprocess the BulgeGraph if necessary to affect node visibility in large sequences.
Review Plotting Library: If fvm.plot_rna doesn't inherently support omitting nucleotides beyond setting text kwargs, explore customizing plot generation directly from matplotlib methods to forego auto-labelling these given certain conditions.

Check Updates or Features in forgivisual: Sometimes libraries aren't equipped out of the box to handle complex logic without combining user-specific methods or adjustments beyond the automatic scope they provide. Always ensure you're leveraging the full set of visualization tools or modifiers offered.

Review Visualization Callpoint: Ensure the point in your application where visual rendering is initiated invokes this function and the sequence parameter is used as expected.

By following these suggestions, you should be able to address the issue of controlling when nucleotides are displayed based on sequence length properly. If problems persist, consider revisiting data handling or initialization functions within your code to identify where sequence-length decisions are realized or improperly handled.